[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: So let's talk about testing,
so testing in asynchronous systems is
tricky because most test frameworks
come with stuff like this right.
You've got some assertion and you've
got a descriptive message and something
you'll have an expected value in an actual
value and if they match, then it's good.
And if they don't match, it's bad.
Except this doesn't work in
asynchronous systems, right?
Because you can't wait for
the actual value.
The actual value might not happen
until many turns into the future and
this just doesn't work.
More than that though, I have a problem
with the way we do testing in general.
In that, we're trying to guess what
the expected value is which
is going to identify the bug.
But most of our errors happen
in the interactions of things.
And finding where a bunch of things
are going to come together and
interact at the one point that fails.
It's virtually impossible
to find that one point.
So what you really want is to have a grid,
a dragnet where you're gonna have a much
larger array of spaces that's distributed
randomly over the possibility space.
And you pick them all out and
hopefully then you'll
improve the likelihood that
you're gonna find the error.
Except you don't wanna do that, right?
You wanna have to write
a thousand times more test cases,
most of which are unlikely to
succeed in finding anything anyway.
That's a huge amount of effort,
no one's gonna wanna do that.
Plus if there's a model change,
it means you now have to update thousands
more tests and nobody is gonna do that.
And it was kind of despairing about that,
when I saw a talk by John Hughes of
Chalmers University about something called
QuickCheck which I thought was brilliant.
So to give you the context about that,
QuickCheck was developed in Haskell.
Haskell is a language that was developed
at the University of Edinburgh and
it is a pure functional
programming language.
That they say pure in that it's
a language without side effects and
that's good and bad but
there's good things about it.
The other thing about Haskell is,
it's got maybe the best type system
of any language in the world.
Instead of having something like
in Java where you specify the type
of every little thing,
you specify the types of almost nothing.
And instead there is an inference engine
that runs as part of the compiler which
goes through looking up everything in the
program trying to determine everything is.
If you're one of those, if you want to act
without then you must be one of those and
so on and keep doing that trying
to solve the entire program.
And if it gets to a point where
it finds an inconsistency,
it can stop and something's wrong here.
And the difficulty with
that is that where it
finds its inconsistency may be miles away
from where you actually made your mistake.
And so getting a program to compile
can be really challenging, but
the theory is that once you get a program
to compile it's guaranteed to run.
Except it's not because it turns out the
class of potential errors is infinitely
bigger than the class of errors that
could be found even by the world's best
type system.
So you still have to test and
these guys came up with a really
nice way of doing tests.
Instead of writing specific
compare actual versus expected,
instead you write a function which will be
true if the system is working correctly.
So in that they call those
properties that the system
will be true is working correctly
if these properties hold.
And so and then QuickCheck
will generate random data and
throw them at your functions and
try to disprove your assertion.
And so they can get tremendous
coverage there, even able to
debug real time systems which is something
that is really, really hard to do.
So I thought, wow,
we should get one of those for JavaScript.
So I wrote one, it's called JSCheck.
JSCheck provides two nice things,
one is case generation.
So it'll generate random test cases for
you and
it also supports testing over turns.
So you can use it to test stuff in node,
you can use it to test things in browsers,
you can use it to test synchronous and
asynchronous functions.
So it's a small library that
comes with some functions,
these are a few of the interesting ones.
The most important one is claim,
we'll talk more about that in a minute.
That's where you make a claim
about how about the system.
If it's working through,
working correctly then this would be true.
You can then tell to check all of
the claims that you've made so
far and
you can also put a time limit on it.
So it will start all the test
simultaneously and they all have to finish
by a certain amount of time,
if they don't then you can record that.
And that's really important because,
the way our systems work now getting
the right answer but taking too long is
indistinguishable from the wrong answer.
And so, we need to be able to
test performance as well and
that's something that the synchronous
testing frameworks don't do.
Then we can get a callback
when the thing is done and
we'll get a full report about
everything that happened.
We can also get a callback on each
error as the errors occur and
you can program that callback
to take you into the debugger.
So as you're finding bugs, you're in the
context where you can fix it immediately.
So this is the claim function, it takes
a descriptive name, it takes a predicate
function as a Boolean which will be true
if your system is working correctly.
And it takes a signature which is an array
of type descriptors which describes
the parameters to the predicate function.
So here's an example, we're going to
compare the old code with the new code.
Our predicate will take a verdict
function and an argument and
we will then determine
that the old code for
that argument does the same
thing as the new code.
And we tell it that that
argument is an integer.
So when we tell this thing to check.
It will generate random integers and
throw them at that function,
trying to disprove our assertion and
you can set as many as you want.
So all of the effort in using the system
is in writing these predicates and
there are lots of ways you could do it.
One is, in this case we're comparing
the old code against the new code.
So as we're migrating the system,
we can make sure that we haven't
changed the behavior of anything.
Another way you could do it is if you
have symmetrical operations, for example,
if you're writing an encoder and
a decoder.
It's usually the case that the decode of
the encode should be equal the original
things, so we can test that that's
actually true for a large class of trials.
We can generate symmetric pairs of
things like we can generate a credit and
a debit, you know both using random
values make sure everything balances.
And in some cases you just might throw
a lot of random transactions at something.
And after each one, run a deep
diagnostic of all your data structures,
make sure everything is still consistent.
>> Speaker 2: So
what would this look like implemented?
I don't understand what verdict is.
>> Douglas: We'll look at
the vertical in a minute.
So verdict is the callback that
is being used in the cases.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Douglas: So it comes with
a small library of specifiers.
You can put each of these in the
descriptor array of what types we want to
throw to our predicate and
it'll try, it'll generate values
random values of each of these types.
So if you need Booleans, if you need
integers, numbers, objects, whatever.
It'll make random things and
pass them out.
If it turns, and these are also
compostable in interesting ways.
For example, if you want random
social security numbers.
I can say I want to strengthen with
three digits and then a dash and
two digits in a dash and so on.
Or if I need an array containing
three elements where the first
element is an integer and the second
is a number between zero and 100 and
the third is a character
string I can get that.
Or I need an object where with
the left property a top property and
a color selected from a list.
Or I need an object with a variable number
of properties where each property is
a four letter name and
each value is a Boolean, I can do that.
There are lots of ways
to compose these and
if it turns out there is some particular
test data that you need that's not
easily composed from these,
you can write your own.
And it's a generator, exactly like
the generators you've been writing.
So you have a function that returns a
function that when, each time you call it,
you'll get the next value.
You can write one of those to generate
all the random test data that you need.
The reason this works asynchronously
is because of the verdict function.
Every check when it begins, is passed
a verdict function that it is used to
return its result and
the verdict is just a continuation.
It's just a call back which allows
the trials to be extended over many turns.
And because we can also
put time limits on this,
we now have three possible outcomes for
every trial.
We can see a pass, we can see a fail or
we can see a lost.
Lost means we did not get
a report before the time expired.
And those are sometimes as important,
as the passes and fails.